OSDOCS-7878_4_13:vSphere migration upgrade issues for 4.13 (#65381)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-migration-vsphere.adoc

[id="persistent-storage-csi-migration-sc-vsphere_{context}"]
= vSphere automatic migration

[IMPORTANT]
====
Migration includes significant consequences:

* Enabling migration cannot be undone.

> * Migration can take awhile to complete depending on how many nodes are on the cluster.

Reviewer: Personally, I'm not a fan of _a while_. But, I think it should be two words.
```suggestion
* Migration can take a while (some time??) to complete depending on how many nodes are on the cluster.
```

====

== New installations of {product-title}
For new installations of {product-title} 4.13, or later, automatic migration is enabled by default.

== Upgrading from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14

> If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. After updating vSphere, your {product-title} upgrade can occur and automatic migration is enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14, first (?) update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. After updating vSphere, you can upgrade your {product-title} cluster and automatic migration is enabled by default.
```

Alternatively, if you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} upgrade by performing an administrator acknowledgment:

[source, cli]
----
oc -n openshift-config patch cm admin-acks --patch '{"data":{"ack-4.13-kube-1.27-api-removals-in-4.14":"true"}}' --type=merge
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you do *not* update to vSphere 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2 and use an administrator acknowledgment to upgrade to {product-title} 4.14, known issues can occur. link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[Before proceeding with the administrator acknowledgement, carefully read this knowledge base article].
====

== Upgrading from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13

> If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. After updating vSphere, your {product-title} upgrade can occur and automatic CSI migration for vSphere only occurs if you opt in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to update from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13, first update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} update is blocked. After updating vSphere, you can update your {product-title} cluster and automatic CSI migration for vSphere only occurs if you opt in.
```

[id="persistent-storage-csi-migration-sc-vsphere_{context}"]
= vSphere automatic migration

[IMPORTANT]
====
Migration includes significant consequences:

* Enabling migration cannot be undone.

* Migration can take a while to complete depending on how many nodes are on the cluster.
====

== New installations of {product-title}
For new installations of {product-title} 4.13, or later, automatic migration is enabled by default.

== Updating from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14

> If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to update from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14, first update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} update is blocked. After updating vSphere, your {product-title} update can occur and automatic migration is enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: unless CSI migration is already enabled
cc @gnufied

Author: Correct me if I'm wrong, but if you have enabled migration, then you won't have in-tree PVs because they have been migrated to CSI, so the first phrase, I think, covers this. @gnufied @gcharot

Reviewer 2: The in-tree PVs still appear at in-tree but yes fair let's not complexify the wording.

----

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you do *not* update to vSphere 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2 and use an administrator acknowledgment to update to {product-title} 4.14, known issues can occur. link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[Before proceeding with the administrator acknowledgement, carefully read this knowledge base article].
====

== Updating from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13
If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to update from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} update is blocked. After updating vSphere, your {product-title} update can occur and automatic CSI migration for vSphere only occurs if you opt in.

Alternatively, if you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} update by:

* Initiating the update from a {product-title} 4.12 Z-stream.

* Performing an administrator acknowledgment by running the following command:
+
[source, cli]
----
oc -n openshift-config patch cm admin-acks --patch '{"data":{"ack-4.12-kube-126-vsphere-migration-in-4.14":"true"}}' --type=merge
----

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If you update to {product-title} 4.13 without updating vSphere, and then opt in to migration, known issues can occur. Review the consequences listed above for migration before opting in and link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[carefully read this knowledge base article].

Reviewer 2: add link to the opt in doc ? https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.html#upgrading-openshift_persistent-storage-csi-migration

Author: Done.

[id="persistent-storage-csi-migration-sc-vsphere_{context}"]
= vSphere automatic migration

[IMPORTANT]
====
Migration includes significant consequences:

* Enabling migration cannot be undone.

* Migration can take awhile to complete depending on how many nodes are on the cluster.
====

== New installations of {product-title}
For new installations of {product-title} 4.13, or later, automatic migration is enabled by default.

== Upgrading from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14
If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.13 to 4.14, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. After updating vSphere, your {product-title} upgrade can occur and automatic migration is enabled by default.

Alternatively, if you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} upgrade by performing an administrator acknowledgment:

[source, cli]
----

> oc -n openshift-config patch cm admin-acks --patch '{"data":{"ack-4.13-kube-1.27-api-removals-in-4.14":"true"}}' --type=merge

Author: Corrected.

----

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you do *not* update to vSphere 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2 and use an administrator acknowledgment to upgrade to {product-title} 4.14, known issues can occur. link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[Before proceeding with the administrator acknowledgement, carefully read this knowledge base article].
====

== Upgrading from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13
If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. After updating vSphere, your {product-title} upgrade can occur and automatic CSI migration for vSphere only occurs if you opt in.

Alternatively, if you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} upgrade by:

* Initiating the upgrade from a {product-title} 4.12 Z-stream.

* Performing an administrator acknowledgment by running the following command:
+
[source, cli]
----

> oc -n openshift-config patch cm admin-acks --patch '{"data":{"ack-4.12-kube-1.26-api-removals-in-4.14":"true"}}' --type=merge

Reviewer 2: wrong key
cc @gnufied

Reviewer 3: Why are we documenting 4.12 upgrades here though? Was it for EUS to EUS scenario?

Reviewer 3: Also correct key is - `ack-4.12-kube-126-vsphere-migration-in-4.14`

Author: Strictly speaking we don't have to include this content here. I think that we were doing this to ensure absolute coverage by including it in the 4.12 and 4.13 docs.
